Monopoly Review

Do I Think Monopoly Is A Good Game
No, not really. HOWEVER! For all the years I’ve spent saying “Monopoly is rubbish,” I had fun. I’ve definitely had worse gaming experiences.

Because we had low expectations and it was a game we felt we HAD to play, we decided to actually read the rules properly first and then just go nuts. We also chucked in a mercy rule after my partner landed on my upgraded Burns Manor (Park Lane in regular game terms) twice in quick succession. We enjoyed ourselves, but not enough to keep it in our collection. Even with us playing quickly, it took us over an hour and a half to reach our conclusion, and in a game when there is not much you can do to strategize, you kinda just have to hope.

With player elimination being a big bugbear of mine, I wouldn’t ever play with more than two. I couldn’t eliminate a friend from playing and then have them watch for the next hour. Especially if they’ve had the last 45 minutes knowing they’re going to lose. You would think that adding more players would mean that someone gets eliminated faster, but that’s simply not true. The money just moves around more frequently.

There is something to be said for having a big stack of cash, which is always fun, but it’s usually at the detriment of everyone else. I also do like the various pewter playing pieces.

There is so much variety these days with every version seemingly having a different set. I remember watching a show where the host explained how Monopoly pieces evolved over time, with a series of public votes, and it's nice that the game can feel a little more personal in that way.

Monopoly isn’t as bad as everyone seems to remember it being. But that doesn’t make it any better to spend an afternoon playing. Monopoly seems to weirdly tread the line between an Amerithrash and a Euro game. The dice luck is very prevalent, but the other mechanisms are something you’d expect in a Euro. There is something endearing about Monopoly’s staying power that has made it a gaming institution. It isn’t a difficult game in the slightest, you just have to get past the playtime and inevitable pouting that will come with it.