Book Review: The Boy in the Striped Pajamas

Two thoughts clash in my mind when I write this review about John Boyne’s ‘The Boy in the Striped Pajamas’. This is about how to treat a historic event in its reality versus children’s fiction around a prohibitive topic. It was a risk that John Boyne was taking and he chose to tiptoe on the reality bit and presents the story from a 9-year-old’s perspective.

The innocence of the perspective has to be first acknowledged, or else we will be discussing the veracity of the fable, which I would rather not. As a book reviewer, I follow the author than take an independent stand, not because I don’t deplore and condemn the gruesome events at the Auschwitz camp, but because there are enough revelations of the gruesomeness that filter through the innocent and naive perspective of a 9-year old boy.

The fact that Grandmother would turn in her grave if she realized that the Fury had sent his condolences on her death expresses the author’s position on the German regime of the times.

‘Fury’ and ‘Out-with’ are two instances when a 9-year-old boy struggles to get the names synonymous with the Holocaust — Fuhrer, and Auschwitz. I can surmise why John Boyne would have chosen to tiptoe because the story is a seeping narrative of childhood’s innocence that soaks slowly into horror toward the end.

My take:
Bruno wants to be an explorer. His natural inquisitiveness takes him on a walk along the camp fence. This inquisitiveness manifests in his offer to search for Shmuel’s missing Papa, which in turn leads him across the fence and gets him into the gas chamber.

“The thing about exploring is that you have to know whether the thing you’ve found is worth finding. Some things are just sitting there, minding their own business, waiting to be discovered. Like America. And other things are probably better off left alone. Like a dead mouse at the back of the cupboard.”
― John Boyne, The Boy in the Striped Pajamas

It might have been better off left alone, but he ends up dead along with a friend in the gas chamber. Without his exploration, we would not know what Shmuel and his family were going through along inside the camp. Through this exploration, Bruno ( and the reader) see what is there up, close and personal.

The scenes are led by the simple visuals that the boys see. Then the naive interpretations of the 9-year-olds follow. Finally, the horror trails their innocence. The boys live their lives in the moment, clearly and present, not knowing the horrific end they are going to suffer. I am not sure about the criticism of the ‘missing reality’ here, but the way the horror grew on me, between the last words of Bruno, and the last chapter, which explains the aftermath, is the most telling part of the narrative of what the boys went through in the gas chamber of Auschwitz camp.

The reader’s mind switches from the 9-year-old’s perspective to being themselves, just realizing the horrendous events and the aftermath. Even if it is historically inaccurate, the way the visuals grow in the reader’s mind and then explode from naivety to horror requires some level of shock absorption. So I would recommend this book for the discerning reader rather than a child.