Dear Reader,

Have you ever had one of those days where you just ache for some cheesy teen chick flick? A typical romantic story that you’ve heard told thousands of times but still enthralls you? To All The Boys I’ve Loved Before by Jenny Han definitely fits the criteria.

Lara-Jean Song has always been a bit of a hopeless romantic; even though she has never been in a proper relationship she still keeps love letters in an old hatbox, addressed to all the boys she has ever been in love with. Of course, she would never send them so they are filled with her innermost feelings and a fair few cringey moments. Trust me!

But the unthinkable happens when somehow the letters get sent to all the boys and Lara-Jean must deal with the repercussions.

I must say i did not expect to enjoy this book. I thought it would be a halfhearted attempt at a romantic love story, something that is destined to be a two star film hidden in the depths of Netflix. But i was so wrong! I became strangely hooked by this book, Lara-Jean was such a relatable introverted person. Her innocence was incredibly adorable and every emotion that she experienced was projected back onto me as I frantically read her story. For example, when she was shown one of her letters that she had written when she was younger, it was so incredibly awkward and cringey that I could just feel the shame oozing from the character of Lara-Jean.

Another thing that made the story was definitely the plot twist - I had expected the story to be all about her letters, considering the title of the book is related to letter writing. But it wasn’t, it took another turn deeper into the realms of cliche romance that worked better than most. In the end I was so sad to be done with the book; it was such a well written and brilliant story.

The writing style was so relatable, the entire book had this first love vibe to it. Every word that came from Lara-Jean’s mouth just oozed innocence, which is partly why I loved it so much. It brings you back to childish crushes and your own embarrassing experiences in love that you had or probably still (or will!) have.

There is actually a sequel to this book, but I don’t think it’s vital that you read it. Stories like this leave readers aching for more but we don’t actually need it.

To All The Boys I’ve Loved Before is a surprisingly good book that out shines first impressions and I would wholeheartedly recommend it when you’re in the mood to cuddle up with a good (albeit cheesy!) book. Maybe even a hot chocolate and a warm jumper?

To All The Boys I’ve Loved Before… is a romantic standalone that you need in your life!