Hazel has cancer, meaning she doesn't know what to do with the rest of her life. Who would? Hazel then meets a mysterious guy, Augustus Waters. Augustus changes her life for the better and she's very grateful for it, but she doesn't want to break his heart when she dies. Hazel and Augustus have what you might think is a perfect relationship - or it would be perfect if cancer wasn't constantly against them.

I don't know what to say about The Fault In Our Stars; I want to say it was an amazing book, but it wasn't an amazing book... it was a heart-breaking book about a girl trying not to fall in love because she knew she would eventually die and leave the one she loved behind.

John Green has written an incredibly inspiring book, it was inspiring because it showed that even when you know you're dying you still have to make the most of the time you have if you possibly can. That you should always try and live every day to the full. That you should live every day as if it's your last.

The end of The Fault In Our Stars was a disappointment. Not because it was written badly, or it had a bad ending, or anything like that. It was because it didn't end how you really, really, really wished it would but I think that was the point - cancer doesn't always end happily. The whole way through the book you hoped that it was going to have that fairy tale ending, but that isn't how life works. Life brings disappointment, it upsets, it kills, it destroys. But it also brings joy, love, sacrifice, heartbreak, friendship. John Green gave a perfect insight into what it must be like to know that any breath could be your last, and he got the readers hoping that the only way it possibly could end wouldn't be the way it did.

I had a great connection with all the characters, and that was a really good feeling. I don't think there is a single character that I didn't feel attached to. They all seemed just so relate-able and nice. I felt like there was a bit of every character in someone I knew.

John Green has managed to write an incredibly successful book and it has earned that success. It's quite rare to get a book with this subject matter, and when you do you hope that it will be good. Sometimes they disappoint you, but I promise The Fault In Our Stars does not.

100% 5 Stars! I've rated it 5 stars because it was so easy to relate to and realistic and I think it's great to read more realistic books sometimes, rather than just drowning yourself in fantasies that are never going to come true.

The film adaptation is due to come out in June.